on this day in gaming
gta san andreas in an unprecedented move
for the industry at its ESRB rating
changed from M to AO after it had
already been stocked on the shelves of
retail the already controversial grand
theft auto franchise had stirred up a
boiling pot with the hot coffee mod a
piece of hidden content in san andreas
that became discovered by the modding
community shortly after the games
released by rockstar north and it would
deal the gaming industry yet another
blow I know I apologize for that suck
session of puns oh man I can't stop I'm
sorry what was hot coffee I hear you
asking not because you don't know but
because you're hyper sexual young males
eager to hear me illustrate the finer
points one more time oh right you
perverts basically your character CJ
goes on a date he walks his woman to the
doorstep he gets invited in for some
coffee classic euphemism but instead of
the typical sequence in which the camera
would wait outside as you listen in on
your protagonist getting some action
you'd get a front-row seat actually
getting to control CJ's stick as he
earned some extra lives it drew ire to
say the least Congress was quick to
counter with the familiar foes of these
vile video games fighting at the
forefront Joe Lieberman Hillary Clinton
Jack Thompson politicians convinced that
these perverse products were melting the
minds of our kin and kind violence in
the medium has been a lingering issue
ever since the 80s generation of kids
stomping on Koopa shells grew up and
itched for a deeper and more mature mode
of escapist freedom 90 92 and 93 would
see much of that maturity in both the
industry and its audience evident with
the release of games like night trap and
mortal kombat the latter drawing both
awe and alarm with its fatality moves
grabbing some guy's spine oh my god
that's so cool grabbing some guy's spine
oh my god our kids are going to hell
that was the mentality parents were on
the defensive only a year later doom
would continue to push the envelope at
least in the eyes of gaming critics
while it's gora fide content was
glorified by the gamer though the
industry overcoming its greatest hurdle
since the nineteen eighty-three crash
would ultimately overcome the opposition
by devising the ESRB a ratings board
that would be lauded as the most detail
old in any entertainment medium a game
called Grand Theft Auto and it's
millennial sequels would become the icon
for the next generation of violence in
video games GTA was the new target on
the block the one for the concerned
mother to point the finger at but for
whatever reason sex in games or movies
has always been more offensive and
distasteful than violence so in hot
coffee started filling mugs around the
world the entertainment software ratings
board responded they changed the rating
from mature to adults only that rating
alone is virtually never used but to
change the rating after the release of
the game how was unheard of it's still
pretty much unheard of a patch removed
the content and served up the coffee
cold but why does this day in gaming
matter what is the event mean well it
means that the ESRB still takes the
integrity of the gaming industry very
seriously that may be something that we
take for granted now and again but
remember it was only 20 years ago that
the entire trade was threatened to be
regulated by a federal ratings board I
mean can you imagine that integrity
matters especially with regards to the
history of the video game after all he
was a lack thereof that brought the
whole thing down Grand Theft Auto would
undeniably help to strengthen the
cinematic experience in video games but
it has also always walked a careful line
it's important to know that there is a
line and crossing it means consequences
for all of us in the entertainment biz
GTA san andreas got its rating changed
from M to AO by the ESRB July twentieth
two thousand five this day in gaming